Refactor/readme (#241)
ITU-DevOps2026/ITU-minitwit: README.md

**Group**: *Pat Myaz*  \
**Members:**  *Carmen Alberte Nielsen, Casper Storm Frøding, Mads Christian Nørklit Jensen, Max Brix Koch, Mathilde Julie Gonzalez-Knudsen*

## Description
This repository contains our group's MiniTwit project, developed in accordance to the specifications of the *Dev-Ops Course (Master at ITU, KSDSESM1KU 2026 Spring)*.

> 

Reviewer: Samme med dette om releases - skal nok ikke være her, men måske blot rykkes til et andet sted. enten som logbook eller en form for developer guide

> Our MiniTwit project is a simplified Twitter/X 'esque' application, emulating the most basic functionality of creating users, posting tweets and following/unfollowing other users. The application is hosted on Digital Ocean, with a pipeline, containing workflows, that is run through GitHub Actions. The application is publically available (for now), but is not truly meant for actual users, but rather to simulate an application, which is being used by simulated users, in production, where we build a pipeline around it to handle Continous Integration and Deployment. In summary the project is for the group members, teachers and examinators of the course.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our MiniTwit project is a simplified Twitter/X 'esque' application, emulating the most basic functionality of creating users, posting tweets and following/unfollowing other users. The application is hosted on Digital Ocean, with a pipeline, containing workflows, that is run through GitHub Actions. The application is publically available (for now), but is not truly meant for actual users, but rather to simulate an application, which is being used by simulated users, alike a true production enviroment. To enforce the simulation of a production environment, we build a pipeline around the application to handle Continous Integration and Deployment. In summary the project is for the group members, teachers and examinators of the course.
```

## Prerequisites
Clone the repository and navigate to the root of it
```
git clone https://github.com/ITU-DevOps2026/ITU-minitwit.git
cd ITU-minitwit
```

### Locally
- The program can be run locally with Docker, with installation steps for it being found here for [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) and here for [Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/).

> ### In the cloud
> You need to ensure that the following Docker images have been built and pushed to Docker Hub: 
> - mathildegk/minitwitimage (This is the production application, it is automatically updated when we push new changes to main)
> - mathildegk/minitwit-dev (This is the development/test application, it is automatically updated when a new PR is created)
> - mathildegk/minitwit-mysql-prod (This is the production database, simply a MySQL image with an initialized database containing the necessary tables, but no data)
> - mathildegk/minitwit-mysql-test (This is the development/test database, simply a MySQL image with an initialized database containing the necessary tables, but no data)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### In the cloud
You need to ensure that the following Docker images have been built and pushed to Docker Hub.

For test env:
- mathildegk/minitwit-dev (This is the development/test application, it is automatically updated when a new PR is created)
- mathildegk/minitwit-mysql-test (This is the development/test database, simply a MySQL image with an initialized database containing the necessary tables, but no data)

For prod env:
- mathildegk/minitwitimage (This is the production application, it is automatically updated when we push new changes to main)
- mathildegk/minitwit-mysql-prod (This is the production database, simply a MySQL image with an initialized database containing the necessary tables, but no data)

```

> ### In the cloud
> You need to ensure that the following Docker images have been built and pushed to Docker Hub: 
> - mathildegk/minitwitimage (This is the production application, it is automatically updated when we push new changes to main)
> - mathildegk/minitwit-dev (This is the development/test application, it is automatically updated when a new PR is created)
> - mathildegk/minitwit-mysql-prod (This is the production database, simply a MySQL image with an initialized database containing the necessary tables, but no data)
> - mathildegk/minitwit-mysql-test (This is the development/test database, simply a MySQL image with an initialized database containing the necessary tables, but no data)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### In the cloud
You need to ensure that the following Docker images have been built and pushed to Docker Hub.

For test env:
- mathildegk/minitwit-dev (This is the development/test application, it is automatically updated when a new PR is created)
- mathildegk/minitwit-mysql-test (This is the development/test database, simply a MySQL image with an initialized database containing the necessary tables, but no data)

For prod env:
- mathildegk/minitwitimage (This is the production application, it is automatically updated when we push new changes to main)
- mathildegk/minitwit-mysql-prod (This is the production database, simply a MySQL image with an initialized database containing the necessary tables, but no data)

```

> See guide in [Docker readme](/README.Docker.md) on how to build an push images to Docker Hub. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See guide in [Docker readme](/README.Docker.md) on how to build and push images to Docker Hub. 
```

- To spin up the project in the cloud (this project uses Digital Ocean), Vagrant is required. Installation of Vagrant is available [here](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vagrant/install). The Vagrantfile also use the Digital Ocean plugin which can be installed with the following command:
```
vagrant plugin install vagrant-digitalocean
```

## Configuration requirements to run the project
Running the project requires configuration of certain environment variables. We recommend a .env file in the root of the project containing the following:
```
 # Global secrets
# Digital Ocean credentials
DIGITAL_OCEAN_TOKEN=<Insert your Digital Ocean Token>
SSH_KEY_NAME=<Insert name of your SSH Key>
# Docker Hub (Also global) 
DOCKER_USERNAME=mathildegk 

# Production environment secrets

> prod_db_connection=Server=<db_IP>;Port=3306;Database=minitwit;Uid=root;Pwd=<PROD_DB_PASSWORD>;SslMode=None;AllowPublicKeyRetrieval=True;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
prod_db_connection=Server=<db_IP>;Port=3306;Database=minitwit;Uid=<PROD_DB_USERNAME>;Pwd=<PROD_DB_PASSWORD>;SslMode=None;AllowPublicKeyRetrieval=True;
```

> PROD_DB_PASSWORD=<Your_secure_Database_password>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PROD_DB_USERNAME=<Your_Database_username>
PROD_DB_PASSWORD=<Your_secure_Database_password>
```

PROD_DB_RES_IP=<Reserved IP for your droplet which contains your production database>
PROD_MONITORING_RES_IP=<Reserved IP for your droplet which contains your monitoring and logging view>
PROD_MANAGER_RES_IP=<Reserved IP for your droplet which contains your Manager container in the Docker Swarm>

# Test environment secrets

> test_db_connection=Server=<db_IP>;Port=3306;Database=minitwit;Uid=root;Pwd=<TEST_DB_PASSWORD>;SslMode=None;AllowPublicKeyRetrieval=True;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
test_db_connection=Server=<db_IP>;Port=3306;Database=minitwit;Uid=<TEST_DB_USERNAME>;Pwd=<TEST_DB_PASSWORD>;SslMode=None;AllowPublicKeyRetrieval=True;
```

> TEST_DB_PASSWORD=Your_secure_Database_password

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TEST_DB_USERNAME=Your_test_Database_username>
TEST_DB_PASSWORD=Your_secure_test_Database_password
```

# Monitoring and logging secrets
GF_SECURITY_ADMIN_USER=<Desired username for your Grafana user>
GF_SECURITY_ADMIN_PASSWORD=<Desired password for your Grafana user>
```

You will need to [create a Digital Ocean token](https://docs.digitalocean.com/reference/api/create-personal-access-token/) and [add your ssh key to your Digital Ocean team](https://docs.digitalocean.com/platform/teams/how-to/upload-ssh-keys/).

## Running the project
### Locally
To ensure the Docker Hardened Images can be pulled if they are not already on your system, start by running.
```
docker login dhi.io
```
In the root of the project run the following docker command:
```
docker compose up
```
You can also add the `-d` flag to run the application in detached mode, meaning that the containers are run in the background

| Service | URL |
|---|---|
| Frontend | http://localhost:5035 |
| Backend API | http://localhost:8080 |
| Prometheus | http://localhost:9090 |
| Elasticsearch | http://localhost:9200 | 
| Grafana | http://localhost:3000 |

### In the cloud
In the root of of the project run the following vagrant command:
```
vagrant up
```

> In your terminal you will be prompted to specify which environment you want to spin up, enter either prod or test. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In your terminal you will be prompted to specify which environment you want to spin up, the two options being prod or test. 
```

| Service | URL |
|---|---|
| Frontend | https://bigtwit.app |
| Backend API | https://bigtwit.app/api |
| Prometheus | Secured behind firewall, is available through Grafana|
| Elasticsearch | Secured behind firewall, is available through Grafana | 
| Grafana | http://46.101.69.11:3000 |

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The services will become available on the following URLs depending on whether you chose prod or test.

Prod:
| Service | URL |
|---|---|
| Frontend | https://bigtwit.app |
| Backend API | https://bigtwit.app/api |
| Prometheus | Secured behind firewall, is available through Grafana|
| Elasticsearch | Secured behind firewall, is available through Grafana | 
| Grafana | http://46.101.69.11:3000 |

Test:
| Service | URL |
|---|---|
| Frontend | https://test.bigtwit.app |
| Backend API | https://test.bigtwit.app/api |
| Prometheus | Secured behind firewall, is available through Grafana|
| Elasticsearch | Secured behind firewall, is available through Grafana | 
| Grafana | http://209.38.184.144:3000 |

```

### Running tests
Tests can be run using the following commands:
```
docker compose run --rm tests
docker compose run --rm apitests
docker compose run --rm uitests
```

### Running static analysis
Navigate to the `/minitwit` directory and run the following command in the terminal:
```bash
dotnet build
```
This will build the application and run .NET code analysis and Roslynator on the project, displaying errors and warnings in the terminal.
.NET code analysis will only display warnings on the newly built code. 
If you want to build the whole application run the following commands in the terminal:
```bash
dotnet clean
dotnet build
```
Roslynator can automatically fix some warnings and errors by running the following command in `/minitwit` directory:
```bash
dotnet roslynator fix MiniTwit.csproj
```
There are some warnings that cannot be fixed automatically, these will need to be handled manually. 

> ## CI/CD Pipeline - Add when we have described it in the report?

Reviewer 2: It should be written in the report now, and ready to be added to the ReadMe

### Required Github Action secrets
- DIGITAL_OCEAN_TOKEN - A personal access token that has acces to the Digital Ocean team
- DOCKER_USERNAME - Docker username, of user that has r/w access to the images used

> - DOCKER_PASSWORD - Docker password corresponding the the user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- DOCKER_PASSWORD - Docker password corresponding to the user
```

- SONAR_TOKEN - Token generated by SonarCloud to allow it access to read the repo
- SSH_HOST - Reserved ip of the production manager droplet
- SSH_HOST_TEST_ENV - Reserved ip of the test manager droplet
- SSH_KEY - An SSH key that is allowed ssh access into the droplets
- SSH_USER - The user the workflows use to ssh into the droplets in prod
- SSH_USER_TEST_ENV - The user the workflows use to ssh into the droplets in test

### Releases
#### Making a release draft using tags
On the main branch first create a tag with the intended version number:
```bash
git tag vx.x.x
```
Where you replace each x with a number from 0-9.
After creating the tag, you push the tag which triggers the workflow and creates a draft release:
```bash
git push origin <tag>
```
#### Semantic versioning
Versioning numbers are determined by following the SemVer versioning scheme, see: <https://semver.org/> for full documentation

## Monitoring
Dashboards and logs are available on http://46.101.69.11:3000 

> ### Dashboards

Reviewer: I know this is a monitoring section, but maybe we should also mention the log dashboard here

## Team Configurations and conventions
### Git commit message template
To tell Git to use gitmessage as commit template file, run the following command in your terminal while being in the root directory of the repository:
```bash 
git config --local commit.template .gitmessage
```
### Branches and Issues
Create issues to describe desired features, known bugs to fix, refactorings, etc. These should use the Template issue, which specifies the title of the issue to be: [Type of issue, i.e Refactor, Bug, etc] - Title of issue as well as adding a /Timespent Xh Ym to each issue.

Branches should be linked to the corresponding issue, and should follow the same convention, i.e [Type of work, i.e Refactor, Bug, etc] - Specific name of what you are working on. Ex: Refactor-vagrantfile (we used / but this can give issues in bash)

### Reviews and checks
When a branch is ready to be merged into main, create a pull request to main. This triggers several workflows, which should all pass for the branch to be eligible for a merge. Furthermore a branch should be reviewed and approved by atleast one team member, who has not worked on the branch, before it is merged.

## License

> MIT License

Reviewer 2: No anti AI license?  :(

Author: Now anti ai

**Group**: *Pat Myaz*  \
**Members:**  *Carmen Alberte Nielsen, Casper Storm Frøding, Mads Christian Nørklit Jensen, Max Brix Koch, Mathilde Julie Gonzalez-Knudsen*

## Description
This repository contains our group's MiniTwit project, developed in accordance to the specifications of the *Dev-Ops Course (Master at ITU, KSDSESM1KU 2026 Spring)*.

> Our MiniTwit project is a simplified Twitter/X 'esque' application, emulating the most basic functionality of creating users, posting tweets and following/unfollowing other users. The application is hosted on Digital Ocean, with a pipeline, containing workflows, that is run through GitHub Actions. The application is publically available (for now), but is not truly meant for actual users, but rather to simulate an application, which is being used by simulated users, alike a true production enviroment. To enforce the simulation of a production environment, we build a pipeline around the application to handle Continous Integration and Deployment. In summary the project is for the group members, teachers and examinators of the course.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our MiniTwit project is a simplified Twitter/X 'esque' application, emulating the most basic functionality of creating users, posting tweets and following/unfollowing other users. The application is hosted on Digital Ocean, with a pipeline, containing workflows, that is run through GitHub Actions. The application is publically available (for now), but is not truly meant for actual users, but rather to simulate an application, which is being used by simulated users, alike a true production enviroment. To enforce the illusion of working with a real production environment product, we build a pipeline around the application to handle Continous Integration and Deployment. In summary the project is for the group members, teachers and examinators of the course.
```
